Integrating ALB and Autoscaling to ECS:


1) Go to AWS Console and search "EC2"
2) select EC2 console and drag down there we will get "Load Balancers"
3) Select "Create Load Balancer", Choose "Application Load Balancer"
4) Enter a name for your ALB
5) Select the scheme (internet-facing or internal).Select the VPC and subnets.
6) Select or create a security group that allows HTTP (port 80) and/or HTTPS (port 443) traffic.

Configure Listeners and Routing:

	Add a listener for HTTP (port 80) or HTTPS (port 443) and Create target groups for each of your ECS services (frontend, backend, nginx)

Create a Target Group for Each ECS Service:

	Go to the "Target Groups" section in the EC2 Dashboard.
	Create a target group for each service (e.g., frontend-target-group, backend-target-group, nginx-target-group).
	Select the target type as "IP".
	Choose the appropriate protocol (HTTP or HTTPS) and port (3000 for frontend, 5000 for backend, 80 for nginx).
	Set the health check path (e.g., / or /health).

Register Targets:

	Once the target groups are created, they will be empty.
	Targets will be automatically registered when ECS services are deployed and running.

Edit the ECS task definitions to include the load balancer information

Update ECS Services:

	Go to the ECS cluster in the AWS Management Console.
	Edit each service to add the load balancer configuration.
	Add the appropriate target group for each service.
	for frontend service:
		Load balancer type: Application Load Balancer
		Service name: frontend-service
		Container name: frontend
		Container port: 3000
		Target group name: frontend-target-group



Create an Auto Scaling Policy:

	Go to the ECS cluster in the AWS Management Console.
	Select the service you want to configure auto-scaling for (e.g., frontend-service).
	Choose the "Auto Scaling" tab and create a new scaling policy.
	Configure the scaling policy (e.g., scale out when CPU utilization is above 75%).

Define Scaling Policies:

scaling policy configuration:

	Minimum number of tasks: 1
	Desired number of tasks: 2
	Maximum number of tasks: 4
	Target tracking scaling policy:
	Metric type: ECS service average CPU utilization
	Target value: 75
	Scale in cooldown: 300 seconds
	Scale out cooldown: 300 seconds




