Troubleshooting load balancer in Amazon ECS:


Amazon ECS services can register tasks with load balancers. Load balancer configuration errors are common causes for stopped tasks.


1) Amazon ECS service-linked role doesn't exist:

	The service-linked role must be created in your account. the Service-linked role allows Amazon ECS services to register container instances with Load Balancers.

2) Elastic Load Balancing load balancer health check misconfigured:

	The load balancer health check parameters can be overly restrictive or point to resources that don't exist. If a container instance is determined to be unhealthy, it's removed from the load balancer.

ping port:
	The Ping Port value for a load balancer health check is the port on the container instances that the load balancer checks to determine if it is healthy.f this port is misconfigured, the load balancer likely deregisters your container instance from itself. 

	This port should be configured to use the hostPort value for the container in your service's task definition that you're using with the health check.


Ping Path:

	 This value is often set to index.html, but if your service doesn't respond to that request, then the health check fails. If your container doesn't have an index.html file, you can set this to / to target the base URL for the container instance.

Response Timeout:

	the amount of time that your container has to return a response to the health check ping. If this value is lower than the amount of time required for a response, the health check fails.


Health Check Interval:

	The amount of time between health check pings. The shorter your health check intervals are, the faster your container instance can reach the Unhealthy Threshold

Unhealthy Threshold

	 The number of times your health check can fail before your container instance is considered unhealthy. If you have an unhealthy threshold of 2, and a health check interval of 30 seconds, then your task has 60 seconds to respond to the health check ping before it's assumed unhealthy.