1) Your company has two on-premises servers named SRV01 and SRV02. Developers have created an application that runs on SRV01. The application calls a service on SRV02 by IP address.
You plan to migrate the application on Azure virtual machines (VMs). You have configured two VMs on a single subnet in an Azure virtual network.
You need to configure the two VMs with static internal IP addresses.
What should you do?

	A. Run the New-AzureRMVMConfig PowerShell cmdlet.
	B. Run the Set-AzureSubnet PowerShell cmdlet.
	C. Modify the VM properties in the Azure Management Portal.
	D. Modify the IP properties in Windows Network and Sharing Center.
	E. Run the Set-AzureStaticVNetIP PowerShell cmdlet.


ans: Run the Set-AzureStaticVNetIP PowerShell cmdlet


2) Your company has an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) subscription.
You need to deploy five virtual machines (VMs) to your company's virtual network subnet.
The VMs will each have both a public and private IP address. Inbound and outbound security rules for all of these virtual machines must be identical.
Which of the following is the least amount of network interfaces needed for this configuration?

	A. 5
	B. 10
	C. 20
	D. 40

ans: 5


3) Your company has an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) subscription.
You need to deploy five virtual machines (VMs) to your company's virtual network subnet.
The VMs will each have both a public and private IP address. Inbound and outbound security rules for all of these virtual machines must be identical.
Which of the following is the least amount of security groups needed for this configuration?

	A. 4
	B. 3
	C. 2
	D. 1

ans: 1


4) Your company's Azure subscription includes Azure virtual machines (VMs) that run Windows Server 2016.
One of the VMs is backed up every day using Azure Backup Instant Restore.
When the VM becomes infected with data encrypting ransomware, you decide to recover the VM's files.
Which of the following is TRUE in this scenario?

	A. You can only recover the files to the infected VM.
	B. You can recover the files to any VM within the company's subscription.
	C. You can only recover the files to a new VM.
	. You will not be able to recover the files.

ans: You can only recover the files to the infected VM


5) Your company's Azure subscription includes Azure virtual machines (VMs) that run Windows Server 2016.
One of the VMs is backed up every day using Azure Backup Instant Restore.
When the VM becomes infected with data encrypting ransomware, you are required to restore the VM.
Which of the following actions should you take?

	A. You should restore the VM after deleting the infected VM.
	B. You should restore the VM to any VM within the company's subscription.
	C. You should restore the VM to a new Azure VM.
	D. You should restore the VM to an on-premise Windows device.

ans: You should restore the VM to any VM within the company's subscription

6) You administer a solution in Azure that is currently having performance issues.
You need to find the cause of the performance issues pertaining to metrics on the Azure infrastructure.
Which of the following is the tool you should use?

	A. Azure Traffic Analytics
	B. Azure Monitor
	C. Azure Activity Log
	D. Azure Advisor


ans:  Azure Monitor


7) Your company has an Azure subscription that includes a Recovery Services vault.
You want to use Azure Backup to schedule a backup of your company's virtual machines (VMs) to the Recovery Services vault.
Which of the following VMs can you back up? Choose all that apply.

	A. VMs that run Windows 10.
	B. VMs that run Windows Server 2012 or higher.
	C. VMs that have NOT been shut down.
	D. VMs that run Debian 8.2+.
	E. VMs that have been shut down.

ans: all of the above


8) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.com.
You have a CSV file that contains the names and email addresses of 500 external users.
You need to create a guest user account in contoso.com for each of the 500 external users.
Solution: You create a PowerShell script that runs the New-AzureADUser cmdlet for each user.
Does this meet the goal?

	A. Yes
	B. No

ans: No

9) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.com.
You have a CSV file that contains the names and email addresses of 500 external users.
You need to create a guest user account in contoso.com for each of the 500 external users.
Solution: From Azure AD in the Azure portal, you use the Bulk create user operation.
Does this meet the goal?

	A. Yes
	B. No

ans: No


10) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.com.
You have a CSV file that contains the names and email addresses of 500 external users.
You need to create a guest user account in contoso.com for each of the 500 external users.
Solution: You create a PowerShell script that runs the New-AzureADMSInvitation cmdlet for each external user.
Does this meet the goal?

	A. Yes
	B. No

ans: Yes

11) You have an Azure subscription named Subscription1 that contains a resource group named RG1.
In RG1, you create an internal load balancer named LB1 and a public load balancer named LB2.
You need to ensure that an administrator named Admin1 can manage LB1 and LB2. The solution must follow the principle of least privilege.
Which role should you assign to Admin1 for each task? To answer, select the appropriate options in the answer area.

ans: 

To add a backend pool to LB1: Network contributor on LB1


To add a health probe to LB2: Network contributor on LB2



12) You have an Azure subscription that contains an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.com and an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) cluster named AKS1.
An administrator reports that she is unable to grant access to AKS1 to the users in contoso.com.
You need to ensure that access to AKS1 can be granted to the contoso.com users.
What should you do first?

	A. From contoso.com, modify the Organization relationships settings.
	B. From contoso.com, create an OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint.
	C. Recreate AKS1.
	D. From AKS1, create a namespace.

ans: From contoso.com, create an OAuth 2.0 authorization endpoint

13) ou have a Microsoft 365 tenant and an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.com.
You plan to grant three users named User1, User2, and User3 access to a temporary Microsoft SharePoint document library named Library1.
You need to create groups for the users. The solution must ensure that the groups are deleted automatically after 180 days.
Which two groups should you create? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
NOTE: Each correct selection is worth one point.

	A. a Microsoft 365 group that uses the Assigned membership type
	B. a Security group that uses the Assigned membership type
	C. a Microsoft 365 group that uses the Dynamic User membership type
	D. a Security group that uses the Dynamic User membership type
	E. a Security group that uses the Dynamic Device membership type

ans: (a) a Microsoft 365 group that uses the Assigned membership type

	(b)  Microsoft 365 group that uses the Dynamic User membership type



14) You recently created a new Azure subscription that contains a user named Admin1.
Admin1 attempts to deploy an Azure Marketplace resource by using an Azure Resource Manager template. Admin1 deploys the template by using Azure
PowerShell and receives the following error message: `User failed validation to purchase resources. Error message: `Legal terms have not been accepted for this item on this subscription. To accept legal terms, please go to the Azure portal (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkId=534873) and configure programmatic deployment for the Marketplace item or create it there for the first time.`
You need to ensure that Admin1 can deploy the Marketplace resource successfully.
What should you do?

	A. From Azure PowerShell, run the Set-AzApiManagementSubscription cmdlet
	B. From the Azure portal, register the Microsoft.Marketplace resource provider
	C. From Azure PowerShell, run the Set-AzMarketplaceTerms cmdlet
	D. From the Azure portal, assign the Billing administrator role to Admin1

ans: From Azure PowerShell, run the Set-AzMarketplaceTerms cmdlet


15) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant that contains 5,000 user accounts.
You create a new user account named AdminUser1.
You need to assign the User administrator administrative role to AdminUser1.
What should you do from the user account properties?

	A. From the Licenses blade, assign a new license
	B. From the Directory role blade, modify the directory role
	C. From the Groups blade, invite the user account to a new group


ans: From the Directory role blade, modify the directory role


