1) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.onmicrosoft.com that contains 100 user accounts.
You purchase 10 Azure AD Premium P2 licenses for the tenant.
You need to ensure that 10 users can use all the Azure AD Premium features.
What should you do?

	A. From the Licenses blade of Azure AD, assign a license
	B. From the Groups blade of each user, invite the users to a group
	C. From the Azure AD domain, add an enterprise application
	D. From the Directory role blade of each user, modify the directory role

ans: From the Licenses blade of Azure AD, assign a license

2) You have an Azure subscription named Subscription1 and an on-premises deployment of Microsoft System Center Service Manager.
Subscription1 contains a virtual machine named VM1.
You need to ensure that an alert is set in Service Manager when the amount of available memory on VM1 is below 10 percent.
What should you do first?

	A. Create an automation runbook
	B. Deploy a function app
	C. Deploy the IT Service Management Connector (ITSM)
	D. Create a notification

ans: Deploy the IT Service Management Connector (ITSM)


3) You sign up for Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) Premium P2.
You need to add a user named admin1@contoso.com as an administrator on all the computers that will be joined to the Azure AD domain.
What should you configure in Azure AD?

	A. Device settings from the Devices blade
	B. Providers from the MFA Server blade
	C. User settings from the Users blade
	D. General settings from the Groups blade

ans: Device settings from the Devices blade

4) You have an Azure subscription named Subscription1 that contains a virtual network named VNet1. VNet1 is in a resource group named RG1.
Subscription1 has a user named User1. User1 has the following roles:
✑ Reader
✑ Security Admin
✑ Security Reader
You need to ensure that User1 can assign the Reader role for VNet1 to other users.
What should you do?

	A. Remove User1 from the Security Reader and Reader roles for Subscription1.
	B. Assign User1 the User Access Administrator role for VNet1.
	C. Assign User1 the Network Contributor role for VNet1.
	D. Assign User1 the Network Contributor role for RG1.

ans: Assign User1 the User Access Administrator role for VNet1


5) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contosocloud.onmicrosoft.com.
Your company has a public DNS zone for contoso.com.
You add contoso.com as a custom domain name to Azure AD.
You need to ensure that Azure can verify the domain name.
Which type of DNS record should you create?

	A. MX
	B. NSEC
	C. PTR
	D. RRSIG

ans: MX

6) ou have an Azure Directory (Azure AD) tenant named Adatum and an Azure Subscription named Subscription1. Adatum contains a group named Developers.
Subscription1 contains a resource group named Dev.
You need to provide the Developers group with the ability to create Azure logic apps in the Dev resource group.
Solution: On Subscription1, you assign the DevTest Labs User role to the Developers group.
Does this meet the goal?

	A. Yes
	B. No

ans: No

7) You have an Azure Directory (Azure AD) tenant named Adatum and an Azure Subscription named Subscription1. Adatum contains a group named Developers.
Subscription1 contains a resource group named Dev.
You need to provide the Developers group with the ability to create Azure logic apps in the Dev resource group.
Solution: On Subscription1, you assign the Logic App Operator role to the Developers group.
Does this meet the goal?

	A. Yes
	B. No

ans: No

8) You have an Azure Directory (Azure AD) tenant named Adatum and an Azure Subscription named Subscription1. Adatum contains a group named Developers.
Subscription1 contains a resource group named Dev.
You need to provide the Developers group with the ability to create Azure logic apps in the Dev resource group.
Solution: On Dev, you assign the Contributor role to the Developers group.
Does this meet the goal?

	A. Yes
	B. No

ans: Yes

9) You have an Azure subscription named Subscription1 that contains an Azure Log Analytics workspace named Workspace1.
You need to view the error events from a table named Event.
Which query should you run in Workspace1?

	A. Get-Event Event | where {$_.EventType == "error"}
	B. search in (Event) "error"
	C. select * from Event where EventType == "error"
	D. search in (Event) * | where EventType -eq "error"

ans: search in (Event) "error"

10) You have an Azure subscription.
Users access the resources in the subscription from either home or from customer sites. From home, users must establish a point-to-site VPN to access the Azure resources. The users on the customer sites access the Azure resources by using site-to-site VPNs.
You have a line-of-business-app named App1 that runs on several Azure virtual machine. The virtual machines run Windows Server 2016.
You need to ensure that the connections to App1 are spread across all the virtual machines.
What are two possible Azure services that you can use? Each correct answer presents a complete solution.
NOTE: Each correct selection is worth one point.

	A. an internal load balancer
	B. a public load balancer
	C. an Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN)
	D. Traffic Manager
	E. an Azure Application Gateway

ans: (1) an internal load balancer
	 (2) an Azure Application Gateway

11) You have an Azure subscription.
You have 100 Azure virtual machines.
You need to quickly identify underutilized virtual machines that can have their service tier changed to a less expensive offering.
Which blade should you use?

A. Monitor
B. Advisor
C. Metrics
D. Customer insights

ans: Advisor


12) You have an Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) tenant named contoso.onmicrosoft.com.
The User administrator role is assigned to a user named Admin1.
An external partner has a Microsoft account that uses the user1@outlook.com sign in.
Admin1 attempts to invite the external partner to sign in to the Azure AD tenant and receives the following error message: `Unable to invite user user1@outlook.com `" Generic authorization exception.`
You need to ensure that Admin1 can invite the external partner to sign in to the Azure AD tenant.
What should you do?

	A. From the Users settings blade, modify the External collaboration settings.
	B. From the Custom domain names blade, add a custom domain.
	C. From the Organizational relationships blade, add an identity provider.
	D. From the Roles and administrators blade, assign the Security administrator role to Admin1

ans: From the Users settings blade, modify the External collaboration settings

13) You have an Azure subscription linked to an Azure Active Directory tenant. The tenant includes a user account named User1.
You need to ensure that User1 can assign a policy to the tenant root management group.
What should you do?

	A. Assign the Owner role for the Azure Subscription to User1, and then modify the default conditional access policies.
	B. Assign the Owner role for the Azure subscription to User1, and then instruct User1 to configure access management for Azure resources.
	C. Assign the Global administrator role to User1, and then instruct User1 to configure access management for Azure resources.
	D. Create a new management group and delegate User1 as the owner of the new management group.

ans: Assign the Owner role for the Azure subscription to User1, and then instruct User1 to configure access management for Azure resources.
 
