LVM:

	It is a feature in Linux that allows for flexible management of storage devices. you can create logical volumes that spars multiple physical disks, resize volumes on-the-fly, take snapshots for backup purpose.


	LVM is used to manage volume and disk on the linux server, logical volume manager allows disks to be combined together.


Examples of LVM:

	Like partition of disk in windows C,D drive similarly we can do the same in the Linux.


	Single disk can be divided into different partitions.

	Multiple disks combined and group them into one, then change it into different partitions.




Eg:1

	We can divide one physical volume to volume group into logical volume

Eg:2

	we can divide multiple physical volumes to volume group into multiple logical volumes


Advantages of LVM:

	In case of disk is running out of space, you can add new disk without breaking partitions of your file system

Possibilities of LVM:

	1) New space can be created on a server for new project
	2) In case of low disk space, increase the space
	3) In case of extra space allocated to a partition, capacity can be reallocated redure capacity in one volume group and add it to another

	
Steps of LVM for adding new space:

	1) Install a new hard disk drive
	2) Make a partition to use it
	3) Designate physical volume (PV)
	4) Manage volume group (VG)
	5) Manage logical volume (LV)
	6) Apply a filesystem
	7) Set a mount point




pvcreate: Used to initialize physical volumes for use by LVM.

	Example: sudo pvcreate /dev/sdb
	
vgcreate: Creates a volume group, which is a collection of physical volumes.

	Example: sudo vgcreate myvg /dev/sdb
	
lvcreate: Creates a logical volume within a volume group.

	Example: sudo lvcreate -L 10G -n mylv myvg
	
lvextend: Extends the size of a logical volume.

	Example: sudo lvextend -L +5G /dev/myvg/mylv
	
lvresize: Resizes a logical volume to a specific size.

	Example: sudo lvresize -L 15G /dev/myvg/mylv
	
lvreduce: Reduces the size of a logical volume.

	Example: sudo lvreduce -L 5G /dev/myvg/mylv
	
pvdisplay: Displays information about physical volumes.

	Example: sudo pvdisplay
	
vgdisplay: Displays information about volume groups.

	Example: sudo vgdisplay
	
lvdisplay: Displays information about logical volumes.

	Example: sudo lvdisplay
	
lvremove: Removes a logical volume.

	Example: sudo lvremove /dev/myvg/mylv
	
vgremove: Removes a volume group.

	Example: sudo vgremove myvg
	
pvremove: Removes a physical volume from LVM control.

	Example: sudo pvremove /dev/sdb